README.md, before:

# Sample Baseline code for TensorFlow Object Detection API for Stanford Cars

Use Google's TensorFlow Object Detection API to detect vehicles types in the Stanford Cars dataset. 

## Dependencies

This project is heavily dependent on the TensorFlow Object Detection API and all of it's requirements. Mainly:

* Python 3.5+
* Protobuf 3.0.0
* Nvidia Cuda drivers
* Tensorflow (>=1.11.0)
* TensorFlow models and examples repository

Since the code is used with Tensorflow Object detection API, For a complete list, please refer in detail as Tensorflow Object Detection API installation instructions.
https://github.com/tensorflow/models/blob/master/research/object_detection/g3doc/installation.md

## Getting Started

### Download the vehicle images 

Download the Stanford Cars dataset (images and Matlab labels).

```
$ wget http://imagenet.stanford.edu/internal/car196/car_ims.tgz
$ wget http://imagenet.stanford.edu/internal/car196/cars_annos.mat 
```

Unzip the tgz file into your data folder. 
```
$ tar -xzvf car_ims.tgz -C <data folder>
```

The labels file (cars_annos.mat) needs to be in the same folder as the extracted images.

	.
	|--- ...
	|--- <Stanford cars data folder>
	|    |--- cars_annos.mat
	|    |--- car_ims
	|         |--- <images>
	|--- ...


Be sure to also clone the TensorFlow models github repository to some other folder directory. We will refer to this location as the <TensorFlow models folder> which should be different than the local 'models' folder.

```
$ git clone https://github.com/tensorflow/models 
```

For the rest of this code, you need to either export the PYTHONPATH to point to the research and slim folders or you can provide the PYTHONPATH at the command line without having to export the variable.

```
$ export PYTHONPATH=<TensorFlow models folder>/research:<TensorFlow models folder>/research/slim
```

### Create tfrecords and labels file

Create the train and test tfrecords from the Stanford Cars annotations and the label map using the script. 

```
$ python create_label_map.py <data folder>/cars_annos.mat
$ python convert_mat_to_csv.py <data folder>/cars_annos.mat stanford_cars_labels.csv
$ python create_tf_record.py --data_dir=<data folder> --set=train --output_path=stanford_cars_train.tfrecord --csv=stanford_cars_labels.csv
$ python create_tf_record.py --data_dir=<data folder> --set=test --output_path=stanford_cars_test.tfrecord --csv=stanford_cars_labels.csv
```

## Training the vehicle model

### Download pretrained model

Download a pretrained model from the tensorflow model zoo and untar to your folder. Here sample is used SSD MobileNet v2 for this project.

```
$ tar -xvf ssd_mobilenet_v2_coco_2018_03_29.tar.gz
```

### Modify the pipeline configuration file

Change the number of classes in the pipeline.config associated with your model to 196 to match the number of classes in Stanford Cars. Also update the paths to your fine tune checkpoint and labels file for both train and eval. 

:grey_question: Depending on your GPU memory size, you may have to reduce the train_config.batch_size. A batch size of 24 works on an 8GB GTX 1070/1080.

Items to modify in the pipeline.config:
* model.ssd.num_classes
* train_config.fine_tune_checkpoint
* train_input_reader.label_map_path
* train_input_reader.tf_record_input_reader
* eval_input_reader.label_map_path
* eval_input_reader.tf_record_input_reader


### Train the model

Use TensorFlow's model_main.py to train the model. This is TensorFlow's "easy" button for training deep learning models. Be sure to replace the model folder with your path.

This command uses the command line PYTHONPATH as opposed to exporting the variable. If you already exported the PYTHONPATH, you can ignore that portion.

```
$ python <TensorFlow models folder>/research/object_detection/model_main.py --pipeline_config_path=ssd_mobilenet_v2_coco.config --model_dir=output --num_train_steps=100000 --num_eval_steps=100
```

### Convert the checkpoint to frozen graph (.pb file)

```
$ python <TensorFlow models folder>/research/object_detection/export_inference_graph.py --input_type=image_tensor --pipeline_config_path=output/pipeline.config --trained_checkpoint_prefix=output/model.ckpt-100000 --output_directory=ouput
```

### Prediction on an example image

```
$ python predict_image.py --model output/frozen_inference_graph.pb --labels stanford_cars_labels_map.pbtxt --image xxxxx.jpg 
```

Here is example result with detection.

![Dodge Ram Pickup 3500](006986.jpg)

## References

```
1. TensorFlow Object Detection API, https://github.com/tensorflow/models/tree/master/research/object_detection
2. Model Zoo, https://github.com/tensorflow/models/blob/master/research/object_detection/g3doc/detection_model_zoo.md
3. Stanford Cars, https://ai.stanford.edu/~jkrause/cars/car_dataset.html
```

Commit message:

Add info how to install TensorFlow 1.13 with GPU support on Ubuntu 18.04 LTS + CUDA 10.0

README.md, after:

# Sample Baseline code for TensorFlow Object Detection API for Stanford Cars

Use Google's TensorFlow Object Detection API to detect vehicles types in the Stanford Cars dataset. 

## Dependencies

This project is heavily dependent on the TensorFlow Object Detection API and all of it's requirements. Mainly:

* Python 3.5+
* Protobuf 3.0.0
* Nvidia Cuda drivers
* Tensorflow (>=1.11.0)
* TensorFlow models and examples repository

> Since the code is used with Tensorflow Object detection API, For a complete list, please refer in detail as Tensorflow Object Detection API installation instructions. https://github.com/tensorflow/models/blob/master/research/object_detection/g3doc/installation.md

> If you are not familiar with how to steup about tensorlow wth GPU environment. You can refer as link as "[How to install TensorFlow 1.13 with GPU support on Ubuntu 18.04 LTS + CUDA 10.0](https://medium.com/@cjanze/how-to-install-tensorflow-with-gpu-support-on-ubuntu-18-04-lts-with-cuda-10-nvidia-gpu-312a693744b5)".

## Getting Started

### Download the vehicle images 

Download the Stanford Cars dataset (images and Matlab labels).

```
$ wget http://imagenet.stanford.edu/internal/car196/car_ims.tgz
$ wget http://imagenet.stanford.edu/internal/car196/cars_annos.mat 
```

Unzip the tgz file into your data folder. 
```
$ tar -xzvf car_ims.tgz -C <data folder>
```

The labels file (cars_annos.mat) needs to be in the same folder as the extracted images.

	.
	|--- ...
	|--- <Stanford cars data folder>
	|    |--- cars_annos.mat
	|    |--- car_ims
	|         |--- <images>
	|--- ...


Be sure to also clone the TensorFlow models github repository to some other folder directory. We will refer to this location as the <TensorFlow models folder> which should be different than the local 'models' folder.

```
$ git clone https://github.com/tensorflow/models 
```

For the rest of this code, you need to either export the PYTHONPATH to point to the research and slim folders or you can provide the PYTHONPATH at the command line without having to export the variable.

```
$ export PYTHONPATH=<TensorFlow models folder>/research:<TensorFlow models folder>/research/slim
```

### Create tfrecords and labels file

Create the train and test tfrecords from the Stanford Cars annotations and the label map using the script. 

```
$ python create_label_map.py <data folder>/cars_annos.mat
$ python convert_mat_to_csv.py <data folder>/cars_annos.mat stanford_cars_labels.csv
$ python create_tf_record.py --data_dir=<data folder> --set=train --output_path=stanford_cars_train.tfrecord --csv=stanford_cars_labels.csv
$ python create_tf_record.py --data_dir=<data folder> --set=test --output_path=stanford_cars_test.tfrecord --csv=stanford_cars_labels.csv
```

## Training the vehicle model

### Download pretrained model

Download a pretrained model from the tensorflow model zoo and untar to your folder. Here sample is used SSD MobileNet v2 for this project.

```
$ tar -xvf ssd_mobilenet_v2_coco_2018_03_29.tar.gz
```

### Modify the pipeline configuration file

Change the number of classes in the pipeline.config associated with your model to 196 to match the number of classes in Stanford Cars. Also update the paths to your fine tune checkpoint and labels file for both train and eval. 

:grey_question: Depending on your GPU memory size, you may have to reduce the train_config.batch_size. A batch size of 24 works on an 8GB GTX 1070/1080.

Items to modify in the pipeline.config:
* model.ssd.num_classes
* train_config.fine_tune_checkpoint
* train_input_reader.label_map_path
* train_input_reader.tf_record_input_reader
* eval_input_reader.label_map_path
* eval_input_reader.tf_record_input_reader


### Train the model

Use TensorFlow's model_main.py to train the model. This is TensorFlow's "easy" button for training deep learning models. Be sure to replace the model folder with your path.

This command uses the command line PYTHONPATH as opposed to exporting the variable. If you already exported the PYTHONPATH, you can ignore that portion.

```
$ python <TensorFlow models folder>/research/object_detection/model_main.py --pipeline_config_path=ssd_mobilenet_v2_coco.config --model_dir=output --num_train_steps=100000 --num_eval_steps=100
```

### Convert the checkpoint to frozen graph (.pb file)

```
$ python <TensorFlow models folder>/research/object_detection/export_inference_graph.py --input_type=image_tensor --pipeline_config_path=output/pipeline.config --trained_checkpoint_prefix=output/model.ckpt-100000 --output_directory=ouput
```

### Prediction on an example image

```
$ python predict_image.py --model output/frozen_inference_graph.pb --labels stanford_cars_labels_map.pbtxt --image xxxxx.jpg 
```

Here is example result with detection.

![Dodge Ram Pickup 3500](006986.jpg)

## References

```
1. TensorFlow Object Detection API, https://github.com/tensorflow/models/tree/master/research/object_detection
2. Model Zoo, https://github.com/tensorflow/models/blob/master/research/object_detection/g3doc/detection_model_zoo.md
3. Stanford Cars, https://ai.stanford.edu/~jkrause/cars/car_dataset.html
```
